{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Chalkduster;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green2\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16260\viewh9940\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Dave Lempke\
PHY 480 Session 7\
\

\f1 \cf2 Grade: check +
\f0 \cf0 \
\
/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
More on c++ classes:\
\
	1. I pretty much understand the new implementation but I do not really see how classes are very different\
	from just putting functions in a header file and including them in the .cpp . \
	I'm just learning c++ so this will probably become clearer to me\
\
	2. For the potentials class you could just have methods for each of the potential types. \
	Then you could have other methods that the potential method calls and the code would be much simpler less error prone.\
	Again, im not familiar with c++ classes\
\
	3. You could make another class for all of the Hij stuff. \
\
/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
Driven Nonlinear Oscillations:\
\
	1. \
	plot1 : Looks like a sin wave. Could be undamped, undriven, oscillator. \
	plot2 : Its a circle. The axes are y(t) and x(t) so this shows some 2D oscillator moving in a circle\
	plot3 : upward opening parabola. V(x) vs x is plotted so this could represent a balll rolling off a hill\
	plot4 : These energy plots represent a simple oscillator. Could be the same system as the first plot. \
\
\
	3. I tried p = 5 with plotting the total energy over time. This quantity is always conserved which was a red flag,\
	so it is clear that this is not a good metric with the way this code runs.\
	\
	So then I did the crudest possible method and compared the Time dependence plots of h=0.1 and h=0.001 for p=5.\
	For the parameters setup, the amplitude of the oscillations should not change. And with h=0.001, there is no\
	change in the amplitude. \
	However in the h=0.1 plot, there is a large decay in the amplitude (in addition to some weird beat effect).\
\
	Looking at the session 7 notes, the error for 4th order Runge-Kutta goes like h^5*phi . where phi = y^(5)(t)/5!\
	For this it seems that h=0.001 is adequite. \
\
	4. By increasing the v0 by 1 order of magnitude, the period decreased by around a factor of 2 for p=3. \
	For p=7, it seems that the period decreases almost 5 times. \
	So it seems that for a particular p, larger amplitude = shorter period. \
	Really not sure what the rule is here, however. \
\
	5. With p=2, resonant behavior is clear. Perfect resonance is achieved with w_ext = 6.28. And with other values, typical\
	beat effects are seen.\
	With p=3 however, I could not find a value that resonates like 2pi does on p=2. The beat effects are stranger for p=3\
	too (proabably because I dont think ive dealt with anharmonic oscillations. \
\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\
Adding Damping. \
\
1. Modifications work so far.\
\
2. I added the term - (y[1]*b) to the RHS equation and it seems to have worked qualitatively. \
\
3. Phase space plots of underdamped are very cool. Makes a nice spiral. Very hypnotic. \
Overdamped (with default parameters) never crosses the x axis and takes a long time to approach equilibrium.\
Critically damped is where overdamped changes to under and it the b constant where the system returns to static\
equilibrium the fastest. \
\
}