{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Chalkduster;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ACTIVITY 3 ANSWERS PHY480 - DAVE LEMPKE\
\
\

\f1 \cf2 Grade: check (upgrade to check + by fixing the indicated problems w/comments.)\

\f0 \cf0 \
1. Look at the file number_comparison.cpp in an editor. What does it do?\
\
	It tekes two numbers and sees if they are equal. It has cos(pi/4)/sin(pi/4) and 1 to start with. \
\
\
2.  Both of the number printed out are 1, however when compared in the program they are not equal. This is most\
	likely due to the error in representing cos(pi/4)/sin(pi/4) as small error of these values could\
	make a difference. \
\
3. A better way to do this given some acceptable inaccuracy eps would be to do something like \
	if(x1 > x2 - eps && x1 < x2 + eps)\
  \
   This way you have a error zone eps in each direction. \
\
NUMERICAL DERIVATIVES\
\
1. This is a fairly simple program that outputs a file which hold the error caused by numerical differentiatino methods\
   with decreasing h size each iteration. Likely there is some balance struck between big h approximation error\
   and small h round off error. \
\
4. The plot I got is consistent with the algorithm truncation error discussed in the notes. At larger h where the truncation\
   error dominates, the forward distance is related to h linearally while the central difference is related to h squared.\
   The central difference is a much better algorithm.\
   Its ideal h value has less error than any of the forward methods error and it is at a higher h value.\
\
5. Calculation approximate ideal h values:\
	Forward: sqrt( 2*eps) \
	= ~2.11e-8\
	This is almost exactly the minimum on the plot\
\
	Central: (24 * eps)^(1/3)\
	= ~1.75e-5\
	Again this is right on the minimum.\
\
 6. For single precision the slopes for the roundoff error section may change but the high h region should have the same power\
	law relationship as with double. Changing to single precision would skew things more to round-off error and bring\
	the ideal up while also raising the error. \
\

\f1 \cf2 Are you sure the slopes would change? 
\f0 \cf0 \
\
\
MAKEFILE SECTION\
\
1. I do not have much experience with C++ but there is no main function in this file so I assume that these functions are used\
by other files. In an organizational sense, it is clear why someone would do this. Keeping the functions in seperate files \
makes programs that use them far easier to understand. \
\
2. The output dat file makes sense as the simpson method and gauss method produce much smaller error than the trapezoidal\
method. Just looking at the numbers it seems like there is a V shaped curve just like the numerical derivative calculations. \
\
4. Plot recreated successfully\
	There are definietly distinct regions in this one just like the other things we've done. Each method seems to have\
	an increasing slope as N gets small which all behave according to some power law. \
	Each method however exits this point at a different N and different error value.\
	After the minimum error ideal point is reached they chaotically increase due to round off error. \
\
5. To make the log-log plot evenly spaced you need some sort of power law distributions of N to test. So what I changed\
	was to start N at 10 and do i = i *1.1 each iteration to get even spaces on the log-log plot. The problem with this\
	is that you need an integer N so you cannot get very high point density while having them evenly spaced. \
\
\
Errors from log-log plot\
\
	I'm fairly certain that something went wrong with me modifying the code in this section and i do not know why.\
	These are the slopes I got from the plot I made where it calculated the log within the code.\
\
	-2.1  -  Trap\
	-.86  -  Simp\
	1     -  Gauss   \
\
	The gauss somehow got messed up so that the error started very low and only went up chaotically like a round-off error\

\f1 \cf2 Actually, this is the standard behavior for Gaussian quadrature. There is no systematic\
truncation error, but this \'93negative\'94 is far outweighed by the fact that it\'92s error is generally\
the smallest!
\f0 \cf0 \
\
	The Trapezoid also performed better than the simpson in general which was not how it worked previously and is not\
	how it should work. \
\
	The fitting using gnuplot worked fine however and I was able to reproduce the relative error plot in the notes,\
	but something got messed up for this last section. \
\

\f1 \cf2 What about the roundoff region? (Hint: due to the scattered/random nature, it helps\
to crank up the N_intervals to get better statistics when you fit.)\

\f0 \cf0 \
\
}