{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Chalkduster;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green2\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 DAVE LEMPKE\
PHY480\
ACTIVITY 8\
\

\f1 \cf2 Grade: check 
\f0 \cf0 \
\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
LOST MY ANSWSERS \
I let my laptop die without saving and lost all of what I wrote down for this activity up until the last section (chaos)\
Theres not a ton of questions on this activity but I try my best here to recreate without redoing everything.\
\
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\
Strings and Things:\
\
	I was able to manipulate the file names as directed using string streams. I set the diffeq_pendulum program\
	to outpute a .dat file based on the alpha value, and used this to answer questions.\
	\
	I changed it back to the default name for the final section however, just so the live plotting worked which\
	is really nice to see the complicated oscillations. \
\
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\
Damped (Undriven) Pendulum:\
\
	Succeeding in manipulating file names\
\
	I used the same default value for theta0 for all three.\
	ALPHA VALUES:\
		Underdamped: 0.2\
		Critical damping : 2.0\
		Overdamping : 4.0\
\
	I chose these values for clarity is seeing the difference. Critical and overdamping have a similar path but it\
	is apparent that the critical damping reaches equilibrium much faster as is characteristic of it.\
\
	I chose a low underdamped value because it makes a very pretty spiral\
\
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\
Damped Driven Pendulum:\
\
	1. The green points are useful for seeing each start of a new oscillation in the driving force. If these\
	appear in around the same place in each cycle of the pendulum then you know that their freqency are the same \
	(or at least some integer multiple of eachother)\
	Furthermore you can see from the position of these greenpoints from the position axes how out of phase	\
	the driving force is from the pendulum.\
\
	2. It took around until t=55 for the transients to go completely away and plotting from here we get pure\
	steady oscillations. \
\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\
Chaos\
\
	1. One way to see how many "periods" are in the limit cycles is to count how many times the phase space\
	plot loops around its (0,0) point (or like (-2pi, 0) if the pendulum flips over).\
\
	Im not sure what is meant by f(t) being built by multiple frequencies but the behavior seen where there are multiple\
	"periods" before this larger pattern repeats again is very cool.\
\
	Like in the thrid example where there are three full swings of the pendulum, each one growing in amplitude,\
	before the pendulum flips over and does the same thing again -2pi radians away. \
\
	\
	2. An extremely small change in starting conditions causes a huge change in the entire behavior.\
	It starts out similar but quickly turns into a completely different system entirely. }